.TH "JAVA-CONFIG" "1" "June 2005" "java-config 2.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
java\-config \- The Java configuration tool for Gentoo
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B java\-config
\fI[options]\fB
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
.I java\-config
Is used to query/set properties of your system's Java environment. It can be
used to list available VMs, java packages, set system default JVM and set user
default JVM.
.PP 
In addition, it is used by Portage as a common interface to querying 
properties about the various JVMs.
.SH "OPTIONS "
.TP 
\fB\-c \-\-javac\fI
Show full path to currently selected Java compiler.
.TP 
\fB\-j \-\-jar\fI
Show full path to currently selected
.I jar 
command.
.TP 
\fB\-O \-\-jdk\-home\fI
Show path to currently selected JDK.
.TP 
\fB\-o \-\-jre\-home\fI
Show path to currently selected JRE.
.TP 
\fB\-v \-\-java\-version\fI
Query current JVM for version.
.TP 
\fB\-p [pkg1[\-SLOT],pkg2[\-SLOT],...] \-\-classpath[=package1,package2,...]\fI
Calculate classpath for a package. If a package is installed in different 
slots you can also specify the slot to get the specific classpath informations.
.TP 
\fB\-e filename \-\-exec=filename\fI
Figure full path to one of the JDK/JRE utilities, such as 
.I keytool 
,
.I rmic
and others.
.
.TP 
\fB\-i PACKAGE(S), \-\-library=PACKAGE(S)\fI
Print java library paths for these packages. Used for example in wrapper
scripts like this: -Djava.library.path=$(java-config -i swt-3). Follows the same
pkg[\-SLOT] convention as for example \-\-classpath.
.
.TP 
\fB\-l \-\-list\-available\-packages\fI
List available Java packages. Used for selection by
.I \-\-classpath
,
.I \-\-set\-system\-classpath
and
.I \-\-set\-user\-classpath
.
.TP 
\fB\-L \-\-list\-available\-vms\fI
Lists available JVMs. Used with 
.I \-\-set\-system\-vm
and 
.I \-\-set\-user\-vm
.
.TP 
\fB\-S <vm\-id> \-\-set\-system\-vm=<vm\-id>\fI
Sets the system\-wide default JVM.
.TP 
\fB\-s <vm\-id> \-\-set\-user\-vm=<vm\-id>\fI
Sets the user\-specific JVM by putting all necessary env vars into 
.I $HOME/.gentoo/java\-env .
.TP 
\fB\-f \-\-show\-active\-vm\fI
Show the JVM that's currently active, as set via \-\-set\-system\-vm or \-\-set\-user\-vm.
.TP 
\fB\-A <pkg1>,<pkg2>,... \-\-set\-system\-classpath=<package1>,<package2>,...\fI
Sets the system\-wide default CLASSPATH.
.TP 
\fB\-a <pkg1>,<pkg2>,... \-\-set\-user\-classpath=<package1>,<package2>,...\fI
Sets the user\-specific CLASSPATH by putting all necessary env vars into 
.I $HOME/.gentoo/java\-env\-classpath
(sourced from $HOME/.gentoo/java\-env).
.TP 
\fB\-X \-\-clean\-system\-classpath\fI
Cleans the system\-wide default classpath, leaving only vm needed jars
on it.
.TP 
\fB\-x \-\-clean\-user\-classpath\fI
Cleans the user specific classpath that was specified by
.I \-\-set\-user\-classpath
by deleting
.I $HOME/.gentoo/java\-env\-classpath .
.
.TP 
\fB\-n \-\-nocolor\fI
Turn off all colors.
.TP 
\fB\-P <vm\-id> \-\-print=<vm\-id>\fI
Print the environment information for the specified virtual machine. 
.

.SH "NOTES"
You can get the <vm\-id> that is used with 
.I \-\-set\-system\-vm=<vm\-id>
and 
.I \-\-set\-user\-vm=<vm\-id>
in the output of 
.I java\-config \-\-list\-available\-vms
inside the brackets. Ex. [blackdown\-jdk\-1.4.1] and you can use this to
set your default Java Virtual Machine.

.SH "AUTHORS"
Karl Trygve Kalleberg <karltk@gentoo.org>
.br 
Adrian Almenar <strider@gentoo.org>
.br 
Jason Mobarak <aether@gentoo.org>

.SH "BUGS"
Report any bugs you find to http://bugs.gentoo.org/.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
env\-update(5)
.TP 
The \fI/usr/bin/java\-config\fR script. 
.TP 
